# ICS4U MEVN 2020 ISP - 2019 FRC Deep Space Scouting App

## Intro
Hi! As a project for my grade 11 ICS4U course, I created this Scouting and Strategy App for the 2019 FRC season "Destionation: Deep Space". As Scouting and Strategy Department Head of rookie team Alt-F4 (7558) that season, I independently developed a very strong scouting app we used throughout our competiton and which generated interest from various veteran teams in the community. That project was created using PHP and a MySQL database on HostGator and took well over 100 hours to program. This project recreates many of the same features, as well as some new ones, using a hosted MongoDB database (storing three document types: comps, matches, and averages) with a Vue front-end framework implementing Express and using Node.js -- this took around 40 hours to create, so it is thus a scaled-down version of the original app. None of the code for this project was taken from the old Deep Space app: everything was either entirely recreated or heavily adapted with more sophisticated programming.

## Game Rules
To understand the rules of the 2019 FRC Deep Space game, here's a quick summary. Two alliances made of three robots (~120 lbs each for scale) begin on opposite sides of a 54ft x 27ft field on their alliance's three-level pedestal structure ("HAB"). Throughout the match, robots attempt to retrieve and score various game pieces, cargo balls and hatch panels, into a ground-level ship structure and two three-level rocket ships -- each of these three structures are mirrored on both sides of the field. Teams can hold one item at a time, and for the first 15s of the 2m30s match, each alliance's robot drivers and operators are blocked from seeing the field, relying on vision tracking or automation to perform in this "sandstorm" period. Throughout the match, teams gain points from scoring their game pieces, leaving their HAB in the sandstorm period (from level 1 or 2), and climbing their HAB in the endgame period (to level 1, 2 or 3). Robots can also play defense on the other alliance's robots to prevent their scoring.

## Features
This app allows you to generate competitions (with an editable name field), gather extensive and useful scouting data for them through the scouting app page, and view your data -- in the strategy interface, you can see all the matches of an individual team at a competition, view a specific match from a competition and the data for each competing team, and see a list of all teams with data from a competition and their various scoring or performance averages -- certain defense data are measured based only on matches where that team played defense. There is no functionality for editing or deleting match data, as that feature is rarely necessary and challenging to implement in the fast-paced environment of an FRC competition -- most frequently, manual querying and editing of the raw SQL database is used in lieu of an in-app system. For our 2020 season, however, I did implement a very thorough effective match editing/deleting system.

## Access
The entire app is available on heroku at this address: https://still-wave-50766.herokuapp.com/
